[KEP] Context Updates for KIC 2.0 KEP (#1216)
Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller: railgun/keps/0003-kic-kubebuilder-re-architecture.md

- generating our public Go API of `kubernetes.ClientSet` via [client-gen][cg]

These among other gains will bring us closer to how upstream works and will reduce the amount of maintenance we have to perform to keep up to date and add features.

On top of transplanting our APIs and adding a new Go API, we also want to transplant the existing monolithic controller onto `controller-runtime` and align ourselves with other controller implementations throughout the community.

[kb]:https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder
[cr]:https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-runtime
[cg]:https://github.com/kubernetes/code-generator

### Test Plan

Prior to these efforts only minimal testing for the controller and the API functionality existed, with these efforts we will add a new integration test suite that covers:

- significantly improve our unit testing coverage
- establish integration tests in Golang which test all our APIs against real Kubernetes clusters
- document testing requirements for new contributions going forward in CONTRIBUTING.md

**NOTE**: Testing of our new Go API is covered for free by `client-gen`.

> #### TCPIngress Example

Author: This was already the real `TCPIngress` testing plan: https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/issues/1179

> #### TCPIngress Example

Reviewer: That issue will definitely live and change over time - how do you feel about linking to that as an example, instead of maintaining a copy in the KEP?

I think that approach would have its benefits - the example evolving as our testing techniques evolve, and avoiding duplicated documentation. My experience with our team's projects is such that our documentation is too spread out and discoverability is poor.

> #### TCPIngress Example

Author: The proposal is the reference for the eventual implementations, it's about sharing an idea and getting general consensus. It should heavily influence the end result but I feel strongly there doesn't need to be parity. I'm uncomfortable with making the KEP into a link hub as I would prefer it be an expression of ideas at a point in time. If the implementation changes enough that it warrants consideration in the proposal we can update the KEP (this is what we've done with this KEP thus far). These are my thoughts, let me know if you are persuaded and if not lets look for some compromise so that we don't spend too much time here.

> #### TCPIngress Example

Reviewer 2: Linking seems fine to me so long as it's valid (i.e. we haven't scrapped the issue entirely). The level of detail in the example seems a bit out of character re the rest of the doc, which is more high-level.

> #### TCPIngress Example

Author: In the interest of time, I'm going to just tear this section out for now :+1:

> #### TCPIngress Example

Author: 0e7e2f70781460f74174dbc8f3f20ac3e8ba57c6

> The following is an example testing plan that outlines how we will test each of our APIs as part of this effort.

Reviewer: > that outlines how we will test each of our APIs as part of this effort

I think that such definitive statements about _what_ will be done _when_ somewhat duplicate the responsibility of our (separate) planning process, and compete with our milestones for being the authoritative source of requirements.

Author: Ok, let's change the language then:
```suggestion
The following is an example testing plan that outlines how we may test each of our APIs as part of this effort. This is only an example, the actual testing plans may vary.
```

##### Status Tests

- [ ] `TCPIngress` status is checked for consistent `LoadBalancer` state between creation and multiple updates to the spec

##### Specific Functionality Tests

- [ ] `TCPIngress` ingress TLS configuration
- [ ] `TCPIngress` ingress TLS configuration for multiple hosts

##### Performance Tests

- [ ] Multiple `TCPIngress` resources can be rapidly created, each backend resolving in under 1 minute
- [ ] Bulk parallel connections through `TCPIngress` succeed, no failures at KIC/Kong level
- [ ] Multiple `TCPIngress` resources can be rapidly deleted, each backend route becomes disconnected in under 1 minute

### Graduation Criteria

- [x] all APIs are ported to the new architecture
- [x] all APIs are exposed via the public Go API
- [x] all APIs are given a controller responsible for ingest of the relevant resources
- [ ] the existing controller that configures the Kong Admin API is ported
- [ ] all APIs receive new automated testing equivalent to the example provided in the above `Testing Plan` section
- [ ] an alpha release cycle with feedback and bug reporting is conducted

> - [ ] an beta release cycle with feedback and bug reporting is conducted maintaining backwards compatibility

Reviewer: ditto - I believe this should be a GH issue (the reason being same as above - competing "authoritative" sources of truth about requirements)

Author: We have milestones which cover the first beta release, would an issue really be right to cover this or do we just have another milestone where we collect bug reports during the beta release cycles?

Author: ```suggestion
```

For now maybe we should just skip?
